Planning for the new Patterson Visitors Centre began in 2018.
A project development group was formed with a goal of starting construction,
but unforeseen challenges were about to occur.
In March of 2020, an outbreak of COVID-19 in the New York area
caused Bethel to go into a full lockdown.
How did the design group siege ahova's blessing on the project
during this unprecedented time?
Well, when Bethel locked down and suspended in-person meetings,
so did the town of Patterson.
This created a serious challenge for us to obtain the necessary approvals
and to keep the project moving forward.
So, with a threat of falling months behind,
we had to rely on Jehova and alter our approach.
So, a local elder was given permission to attend the town planning board meetings
in person once they opened up.
He allowed us as a design team to make a presentation effectively but remotely.
We saw Jehova's hand and his blessing on this entire arrangement.
So, through months of meetings, we were able to get the approvals needed
and then get a building permit to begin construction
all of this taking place during the lockdown.
Following all the local guidelines, the branch found a way
to bring skilled brothers and sisters into the Bethel bubble safely
so they could work on the project.
Jehova caused many volunteers to offer themselves willingly to help.
Here we are building the Patterson Visitor Center
during a most unique time in history in the midst of a global pandemic.
The Brotherhood has demonstrated a heart for the work.
Through contributions, brothers and sisters offering their skills,
some of which are quite unique.
It's so encouraging to see how Jehova has come to our aid with supply issues
and how Bethel departments have cooperated and provided skilled people to help us.
It's been so encouraging.
All involved have seen Jehova's hand guiding the way through these challenging circumstances.
But some may wonder, at a time when guests are not allowed on Bethel property,
why is this Visitor Center so important to Jehova?
The physical buildings at Bethel are attractive.
But what's more valuable to Jehova is what happens inside.
It's the spiritual gift that he has in store for all who come to visit that is so important.
The Patterson Visitor Center is designed to be an immersive,
theocratic experience for everyone.
The Patterson Visitor Center will feature three museums and a coin display.
Our feature museum will be a first-century Bible village.
The objective is to educate visitors about what life was like in the first century,
and thereby bring Bible accounts to life.
You will get a sense of what things were like when Jesus walked the earth.
Since the Israelites lived off the land,
the experience begins with an overview of the annual crop cycles
that form the core of so much of their daily activities.
Key agricultural tasks such as threshing, winoing, and grinding grain
will be illustrated with interactive displays.
We know you will find the exhibit components like the functioning olive press and wine press,
very interesting and informative.
The next stop will be a typical first-century market.
Here you will see some of the food and goods that would have been available
depending on the season of the year.
We next invite you into the residence and workshop spaces of a typical first-century Israelite family.
The manger, carpentry shop, weaving, and fabric-dying displays
will illustrate a number of Israelite activities.
The resident's courtyard area will show other regular home tasks like grain grinding and basket making.
We next invite you into a typical Israelite home and out onto a rooftop
overlooking the rest of the village.
Before you leave the residences, you will also see an upper room
that would have been in some of the Israelite homes.
The next area of the first-century Bible village that you can explore is the synagogue,
which was the center of worship and study in the Jewish community.
Next, a functioning pottery wheel in kiln will illustrate how pottery was made.
The last stop will take you to a lakeside where you will be able to board a first-century fishing boat
similar to the one that Jesus and His disciples used.
Here you can learn what was involved in commercial fishing.
This, and so much more, is waiting for you at the new Patterson Visitor Center.
We can't wait for you to come and see the beautiful spiritual gift that is waiting for you.
The new visitor center and museum are on course to be completed in the fall of 2023.
When will guests be able to come back to Bethlehem and tour the new facility?
We are going to have to wait and see.
But one thing is, for sure, when the doors finally do open,
anyone who makes the effort to come will receive a spiritual gift from Jehovah.
The touring experience will prove to be a spiritual encouragement to the worldwide Brotherhood
and promote pure worship to Jehovah's praise and honor in a very unique way.
It will certainly be a must-see.
Well, we've seen the blessings on this project and really all the people working hard on it.
The facility is going to benefit thousands of future visitors.
It's because all of us, either now or in the New World, need to be taught about the life and ministry of Jesus.
For this reason, we're convinced of Jehovah's blessing on the project and his desire to have this facility built.
It's Jehovah's desire that people come to his house and be refreshed and educated.
It is our prayer that this new and thrilling visitor center will accomplish that.
Yes, we'll come. They will be up built and they will draw closer to Jehovah God.